doc/LOGGING.md, before:

# Logging

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 uses the [tracing](https://docs.rs/tracing/latest/tracing/) ecosystem for logging. This makes it easy to configure the verbosity and target of log output.
The logging level is minimal by default, but for reporting issues or debugging application problems, you may want to customize this logging behavior.

## Log outputs

By default, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 will not emit any logs to disk.

You can enable logging to disk by providing a destination directory using the `-l, --log-directory` command-line argument.
The directory will be created if it doesn't exist.
A new log file will be created for each execution of `mount-s3`.
Both the directory and log files are created with permissions such that the process owner has read/write access and the group has read access.
Log files are not rotated or cleaned up.

When running in foreground mode (`-f, --foreground`), `mount-s3` will emit logs to stdout in addition to any configured log directory.

## Log details

By default, the logging level is minimal. For reporting issues or debugging application problems, it can be helpful to increase this verbosity. We use the common `RUST_LOG` environment variable for controlling log verbosity and subjects.

To control the log verbosity, set the `RUST_LOG` environment variable. If unset, it defaults to `error` to enable only error-level log messages. Verbosity can be increased by instead setting `RUST_LOG` to `warn`, `info`, `debug`, or `trace`.

`RUST_LOG` can also control the subjects that are included in the log output. By default, all subjects are included, but verbosity can be configured on a per-subject basis. For example, setting `RUST_LOG` to `trace,awscrt=off` turns on trace-level logging for all subjects except `awscrt`. See the [tracing documentation](https://docs.rs/tracing-subscriber/0.3.16/tracing_subscriber/struct.EnvFilter.html) for more details on how to configure `RUST_LOG`.

### Logging suggestions

For interactive debugging, we often set `RUST_LOG=debug,awscrt=off` to enable debug-level errors for everything except the AWS Common Runtime (the `awscrt` subject). The Common Runtime logging is more verbose, so it's helpful to filter those messages out interactively.

For reporting issues, we suggest `RUST_LOG=trace,awscrt=debug` as a good default choice.

Commit message:

Add flags for logging configuration
This simplifies how we ask customers to configure logging by no longer
exposing them to RUST_LOG or filtering directives. Instead, we add a
`--debug` flag to enable verbose logs, and `--debug-crt` to enable
verbose CRT logs (which are spammier). We also add a `--no-log` flag to
completely turn off logging, and `--log-metrics` to emit the summarized
performance metrics.

This change also fixes a bug in the syslog implementation with events
that come via `tracing-log` (the adapter for emitting `tracing` events
from the `log` facade). We use this adapter for adapting CRT logs into
`tracing`, since `tracing` is very picky about log events having static
metadata but CRT logs are necessarily dynamic. The `tracing-log` adapter
records metadata in some custom fields, which we weren't correctly
handling, so our log messages had the wrong `target` and a bunch of
extra fields. This change is annoying to write a test for because `log`
is global, but I tested it manually.

Signed-off-by: James Bornholt <bornholt@amazon.com>

doc/LOGGING.md, after:

# Logging

By default, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 emits high-severity log information to [syslog](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5424) if available on your system. To view these logs on systems using `journald` (most modern Linux distributions, including Amazon Linux), run:

    journalctl -e SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER=mount-s3

On other systems, syslog entries are likely written to a file such as `/var/log/syslog`.

When running in foreground mode (the `-f, --foreground` command-line argument), Mountpoint will emit logs to stdout in addition to syslog or any configured log directory (see below).

## Logging to a file

You can direct logs to a file instead of syslog by providing a destination directory using the `-l, --log-directory` command-line argument.
The directory will be created if it doesn't exist.
A new log file will be created for each execution of `mount-s3`.
Both the directory and log files are created with read/write access for the process owner and read access for the process owner's group.
Log files are not automatically rotated or cleaned up.

## Disabling logging

If you do not want to record any logs, use the `--no-log` command-line argument. This argument cannot be combined with other logging-related command-line arguments.

## Verbose logging

By default, Mountpoint only logs high-severity events. For reporting issues or debugging application problems, it can be helpful to increase this verbosity.
You can enable more verbose logging with the `--debug` command-line argument. We recommend logging to a file (the `-l, --log-directory` argument above) when using this option.

### Advanced logging verbosity options

To enable more verbose logging for the AWS Common Runtime that Mountpoint uses to communicate with S3, use the `--debug-crt` command-line argument. These logs are very verbose, and should be combined with the `-l, --log-directory` and `--debug` arguments described above.

For finer-grained control over log verbosity, Mountpoint uses the `MOUNTPOINT_LOG` environment variable, which overrides the verbosity options above. The `MOUNTPOINT_LOG` environment variable uses the [`tracing-subscriber` directive syntax](https://docs.rs/tracing-subscriber/0.3.17/tracing_subscriber/filter/struct.EnvFilter.html), and can be used to control log verbosity on a per-subject basis. For example, setting `MOUNTPOINT_LOG` to `trace` enables all trace-level logs, while `trace,awscrt=warn` enables trace-level logs for all log subjects except `awscrt`, which has only warning-level logging enabled.
