doc/SEMANTICS.md, before:

# Mountpoint for Amazon S3 file system semantics

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is optimized for workloads that need high-throughput read and write access to data stored in S3 through a file system interface, but otherwise do not rely on file system features. It intentionally does not implement the full POSIX specification for file systems. As an approximation, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is much closer to a [HDFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.2.1/hdfs_design.html) distributed file system, focused on high-performance access to large data sets, than to NFS or other file systems that offer rich POSIX semantics. Customers that need richer file system semantics should consider other AWS file services such as [Amazon Elastic File System](https://aws.amazon.com/efs/) or [Amazon FSx](https://aws.amazon.com/fsx/).

## Semantics tenets

When thinking about the semantics Mountpoint for Amazon S3 will support, we have three tenets in mind:
1. We will not support semantics that cannot be implemented efficiently against S3's object APIs. We do not try to emulate operations like `rename` that would require many API calls to S3 to perform.
2. We present a common view of S3 object data through both file and object APIs. We eschew special emulations of POSIX file features (such as ownership and permissions) that have no close analog in S3's object APIs.
3. When these tenets cause us to diverge from POSIX semantics, we prefer to fail early and explicitly. We would rather cause applications to fail with IO errors than silently accept operations like `setxattr` that we will never successfully persist.

## Mapping S3 object keys to files and directories

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 interprets keys in your S3 bucket as file system paths by splitting them on the `/` character. For example, if your bucket contains the following object keys:

* `colors/blue/image.jpg`
* `colors/red/image.jpg`
* `colors/list.txt`

then mounting your bucket would give the following file system structure:

* `colors` (directory)
    * `blue` (directory)
        * `image.jpg` (file)
    * `red` (directory)
        * `image.jpg` (file)
    * `list.txt` (file)

S3 places fewer restrictions on [valid object keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-keys.html) than POSIX does for valid file and directory names. As a result, some object keys in your S3 bucket may not be visible when mounting the bucket using Mountpoint for Amazon S3:

* Object keys that contain null bytes (`\0`) will not be accessible.
* Object keys that would result in files or directories named `.` or `..` will not be accessible. This includes the object keys `.` or `..`, any key that ends in `/.` or `/..`, and any key that contains `/./` or `/../`. The `.` and `..` names are instead reserved for use by the usual relative directories (`.` for the current directory, and `..` for the parent).
* Object keys that end in the path delimiter (`/`) will not be accessible. Instead, a directory of the same name will be visible.
  For example, if your bucket has the following object keys:

  * `blue/`
  * `blue/image.jpg`
  * `red/`
  
  then mounting your bucket would give a file system with a `blue` directory containing an `image.jpg` file, and an empty `red` directory. The `blue/` and `red/` objects will not be accessible. Note that the S3 Console creates zero-byte objects like `blue/` and `red/` when creating directories in a bucket, and so these directories will work as expected.
* Files will be shadowed by directories with the same name. For example, if your bucket has the following object keys:

  * `blue`
  * `blue/image.jpg`
  
  then mounting your bucket would give a file system with a `blue` directory, containing the file `image.jpg`. The `blue` object will not be accessible. Deleting the key `blue/image.jpg` will remove the `blue` directory, and cause the `blue` file to become visible.

We test Mountpoint for Amazon S3 against these restrictions using a [reference model](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/blob/0ca2c771237032040bd1ec9405f5ed0ffa5d2eb9/s3-file-connector/tests/reftests/reference.rs#L121) that programmatically encodes the expected mapping between S3 objects and file system structure.

Windows-style path delimiters (`\`) are not supported.

## Operations on files and directories

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 intentionally does not support all POSIX file system operations. This section describes the intended behavior of file operations against Mountpoint for Amazon S3 mounts.

### File operations

#### Reads

Basic read-only operations are fully supported, including both sequential and random reads:
* `open`, `openat`, a file can be opened in read-write mode (`O_RDWR`) but you can't both read and write to the same file descriptor
* `read`, `readv`, `pread`, `preadv`
* `lseek`
* `close`

#### Writes

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 supports sequential write operations (through `write`, `writev`, `pwrite`, `pwritev`),
but with some limitations:

* Writes will only be supported to new files, and must be done sequentially.
* Modifying existing files will not be supported.
* Truncation will not be supported.

Synchronization operations (`fsync`, `fdatasync`) complete the upload of the object to S3 and disallow
further writes.

Space allocation (`fallocate`, `posix_fallocate`) are not supported.

Changing last access and modification times (`utime`) is supported only on files that are being written.

#### Deletes

File deletion (`unlink`) is planned but not yet supported (see [#78](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/issues/78)).
When `unlink` is implemented, the following semantics are proposed.

For files not yet committed to S3, the client will not permit `unlink` operations.
The file should be closed and thus committed to S3, at which point an `unlink` can be performed on the remote file.

For files already committed to S3, the client will _immediately_ delete the corresponding object from S3,
and remove the file from its directory.
If there are still open file handles to the file, future reads to them will fail.
Because the object is immediately deleted from S3, future reads from other hosts will also fail.

### Directory operations

Basic read-only directory operations (`opendir`, `readdir`, `closedir`) are supported.

Creating directories (`mkdir`) is supported, with the following behavior:

* `mkdir` will create a new empty directory in the file system, but not affect the S3 bucket.
* Note that this is different from e.g. the S3 Console, which creates "directory markers" (i.e. zero-byte objects with `<directory-name>/` key) in the bucket.
* If a file is created under the new (or a nested) directory and committed to S3, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 will revert to using the default mapping of S3 object keys. This implies that the directory will be visible as long as there are keys which contain it as a prefix.

Renaming files and directories (`rename`, `renameat`) is not currently supported.

File deletion (`unlink`) semantics are described in the [Deletes](#deletes) section.

Empty directory removal (`rmdir`) is supported, with the following semantics:

* `rmdir` will only delete empty directories created by `mkdir`.
* `rmdir` will fail on directories backed on S3 by a directory marker (i.e. zero-byte object with `<directory-name>/` key).
* As soon as a file is committed to the S3 bucket by Mountpoint,
  the directory will be considered to exist implicitly.
  If Mountpoint later observes that there are no files existing for that directory in S3,
  Mountpoint will consider the directory to have been deleted.
* On success, the directory will be deleted immediately. Subsequent reads or writes to the directory (e.g. creating a file or subdirectory) will fail.

Synchronization operations (`fsync`) on directories are not supported.

### File and directory metadata and permissions

Reading file metadata (`stat`, `fstatat`) is supported, but with some limitations:
* File mode will be a default value (`0644` for files, `0755` for directories) unless you manually configure them with the `--file-mode` and `--dir-mode` command-line arguments.
* File owner and group will default to the user/group that mounted the bucket unless you manually configure them with the `--uid` and `--gid` command-line arguments.
* Last access time and last status change time will be the same as the last modified time.
* Inode numbers are not stable and can change.

Modifying file metadata (`chmod`, `chown`, `chgrp`) is not supported.

Extended attributes (`getxattr`, `setxattr`, `listxattr`, `removexattr`) are not supported.

POSIX file locks (`lockf`) are not supported.

### Links

Hard links and symbolic links are both unsupported.

## Error handling

Unlike local file systems, operations against Mountpoint for Amazon S3 mounts can experience transient failures such as network timeouts or temporary unavailability. Mountpoint for Amazon S3 implements [best practices for S3 use](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/optimizing-performance-design-patterns.html#optimizing-performance-timeouts-retries), including retries, exponential backoff, and horizontal scaling. When a request fails despite these efforts, operations might return `EIO` or `ETIMEDOUT` errors to the application.

## Concurrent mutations

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 does not currently make any guarantees about the effects of a bucket being mutated remotely while being accessed through the file client. We recommend using Mountpoint for Amazon S3 only with buckets that are not concurrently mutated, or where mutations can be isolated to separate objects from those being read.

When Mountpoint for Amazon S3 detects that an object has been mutated in S3 while being read by the file client, it will cause future reads to the same file descriptor to return `EIO`. To read the new contents of the object, re-open the file.

We have not yet [nailed down the exact semantics](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/issues/128) of concurrent mutations that affect the directory hierarchy (like creating a `foo/` key when `foo` already exists).

Commit message:

Introduce option to allow delete
Signed-off-by: Alessandro Passaro <alexpax@amazon.co.uk>

doc/SEMANTICS.md, after:

# Mountpoint for Amazon S3 file system semantics

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is optimized for workloads that need high-throughput read and write access to data stored in S3 through a file system interface, but otherwise do not rely on file system features. It intentionally does not implement the full POSIX specification for file systems. As an approximation, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 is much closer to a [HDFS](https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r1.2.1/hdfs_design.html) distributed file system, focused on high-performance access to large data sets, than to NFS or other file systems that offer rich POSIX semantics. Customers that need richer file system semantics should consider other AWS file services such as [Amazon Elastic File System](https://aws.amazon.com/efs/) or [Amazon FSx](https://aws.amazon.com/fsx/).

## Semantics tenets

When thinking about the semantics Mountpoint for Amazon S3 will support, we have three tenets in mind:
1. We will not support semantics that cannot be implemented efficiently against S3's object APIs. We do not try to emulate operations like `rename` that would require many API calls to S3 to perform.
2. We present a common view of S3 object data through both file and object APIs. We eschew special emulations of POSIX file features (such as ownership and permissions) that have no close analog in S3's object APIs.
3. When these tenets cause us to diverge from POSIX semantics, we prefer to fail early and explicitly. We would rather cause applications to fail with IO errors than silently accept operations like `setxattr` that we will never successfully persist.

## Mapping S3 object keys to files and directories

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 interprets keys in your S3 bucket as file system paths by splitting them on the `/` character. For example, if your bucket contains the following object keys:

* `colors/blue/image.jpg`
* `colors/red/image.jpg`
* `colors/list.txt`

then mounting your bucket would give the following file system structure:

* `colors` (directory)
    * `blue` (directory)
        * `image.jpg` (file)
    * `red` (directory)
        * `image.jpg` (file)
    * `list.txt` (file)

S3 places fewer restrictions on [valid object keys](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-keys.html) than POSIX does for valid file and directory names. As a result, some object keys in your S3 bucket may not be visible when mounting the bucket using Mountpoint for Amazon S3:

* Object keys that contain null bytes (`\0`) will not be accessible.
* Object keys that would result in files or directories named `.` or `..` will not be accessible. This includes the object keys `.` or `..`, any key that ends in `/.` or `/..`, and any key that contains `/./` or `/../`. The `.` and `..` names are instead reserved for use by the usual relative directories (`.` for the current directory, and `..` for the parent).
* Object keys that end in the path delimiter (`/`) will not be accessible. Instead, a directory of the same name will be visible.
  For example, if your bucket has the following object keys:

  * `blue/`
  * `blue/image.jpg`
  * `red/`
  
  then mounting your bucket would give a file system with a `blue` directory containing an `image.jpg` file, and an empty `red` directory. The `blue/` and `red/` objects will not be accessible. Note that the S3 Console creates zero-byte objects like `blue/` and `red/` when creating directories in a bucket, and so these directories will work as expected.
* Files will be shadowed by directories with the same name. For example, if your bucket has the following object keys:

  * `blue`
  * `blue/image.jpg`
  
  then mounting your bucket would give a file system with a `blue` directory, containing the file `image.jpg`. The `blue` object will not be accessible. Deleting the key `blue/image.jpg` will remove the `blue` directory, and cause the `blue` file to become visible.

We test Mountpoint for Amazon S3 against these restrictions using a [reference model](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/blob/0ca2c771237032040bd1ec9405f5ed0ffa5d2eb9/s3-file-connector/tests/reftests/reference.rs#L121) that programmatically encodes the expected mapping between S3 objects and file system structure.

Windows-style path delimiters (`\`) are not supported.

## Operations on files and directories

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 intentionally does not support all POSIX file system operations. This section describes the intended behavior of file operations against Mountpoint for Amazon S3 mounts.

### File operations

#### Reads

Basic read-only operations are fully supported, including both sequential and random reads:
* `open`, `openat`, a file can be opened in read-write mode (`O_RDWR`) but you can't both read and write to the same file descriptor
* `read`, `readv`, `pread`, `preadv`
* `lseek`
* `close`

#### Writes

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 supports sequential write operations (through `write`, `writev`, `pwrite`, `pwritev`),
but with some limitations:

* Writes will only be supported to new files, and must be done sequentially.
* Modifying existing files will not be supported.
* Truncation will not be supported.

Synchronization operations (`fsync`, `fdatasync`) complete the upload of the object to S3 and disallow
further writes.

Space allocation (`fallocate`, `posix_fallocate`) are not supported.

Changing last access and modification times (`utime`) is supported only on files that are being written.

#### Deletes

File deletion (`unlink`) can be enabled by setting the `--allow-delete` option and is implemented with
the following behavior:

* For files not yet committed to S3, the client does not permit `unlink` operations.
* The file should be closed and thus committed to S3, at which point an `unlink` can be performed on the remote file.
* For files already committed to S3, the client _immediately_ deletes the corresponding object from S3,
  and removes the file from its directory.
* If there are still open file handles to the file, future reads to them will fail.
* Because the object is immediately deleted from S3, future reads from other hosts will also fail.

### Directory operations

Basic read-only directory operations (`opendir`, `readdir`, `closedir`) are supported.

Creating directories (`mkdir`) is supported, with the following behavior:

* `mkdir` will create a new empty directory in the file system, but not affect the S3 bucket.
* Note that this is different from e.g. the S3 Console, which creates "directory markers" (i.e. zero-byte objects with `<directory-name>/` key) in the bucket.
* If a file is created under the new (or a nested) directory and committed to S3, Mountpoint for Amazon S3 will revert to using the default mapping of S3 object keys. This implies that the directory will be visible as long as there are keys which contain it as a prefix.

Renaming files and directories (`rename`, `renameat`) is not currently supported.

File deletion (`unlink`) semantics are described in the [Deletes](#deletes) section.

Empty directory removal (`rmdir`) is supported, with the following semantics:

* `rmdir` will only delete empty directories created by `mkdir`.
* `rmdir` will fail on directories backed on S3 by a directory marker (i.e. zero-byte object with `<directory-name>/` key).
* As soon as a file is committed to the S3 bucket by Mountpoint,
  the directory will be considered to exist implicitly.
  If Mountpoint later observes that there are no files existing for that directory in S3,
  Mountpoint will consider the directory to have been deleted.
* On success, the directory will be deleted immediately. Subsequent reads or writes to the directory (e.g. creating a file or subdirectory) will fail.

Synchronization operations (`fsync`) on directories are not supported.

### File and directory metadata and permissions

Reading file metadata (`stat`, `fstatat`) is supported, but with some limitations:
* File mode will be a default value (`0644` for files, `0755` for directories) unless you manually configure them with the `--file-mode` and `--dir-mode` command-line arguments.
* File owner and group will default to the user/group that mounted the bucket unless you manually configure them with the `--uid` and `--gid` command-line arguments.
* Last access time and last status change time will be the same as the last modified time.
* Inode numbers are not stable and can change.

Modifying file metadata (`chmod`, `chown`, `chgrp`) is not supported.

Extended attributes (`getxattr`, `setxattr`, `listxattr`, `removexattr`) are not supported.

POSIX file locks (`lockf`) are not supported.

### Links

Hard links and symbolic links are both unsupported.

## Error handling

Unlike local file systems, operations against Mountpoint for Amazon S3 mounts can experience transient failures such as network timeouts or temporary unavailability. Mountpoint for Amazon S3 implements [best practices for S3 use](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/optimizing-performance-design-patterns.html#optimizing-performance-timeouts-retries), including retries, exponential backoff, and horizontal scaling. When a request fails despite these efforts, operations might return `EIO` or `ETIMEDOUT` errors to the application.

## Concurrent mutations

Mountpoint for Amazon S3 does not currently make any guarantees about the effects of a bucket being mutated remotely while being accessed through the file client. We recommend using Mountpoint for Amazon S3 only with buckets that are not concurrently mutated, or where mutations can be isolated to separate objects from those being read.

When Mountpoint for Amazon S3 detects that an object has been mutated in S3 while being read by the file client, it will cause future reads to the same file descriptor to return `EIO`. To read the new contents of the object, re-open the file.

We have not yet [nailed down the exact semantics](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/issues/128) of concurrent mutations that affect the directory hierarchy (like creating a `foo/` key when `foo` already exists).
